

<https://github.com/dhimmel/mesh> VERY NICE -- python and dated but
exactly what we want to do --

descriptor-terms file as supplemntal-terms file --

![](images/mesh.png)

<https://www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/techbull/nd03/nd03_map_to.html> Very
helpful but very dated --

<https://hhs.github.io/meshrdf/scrs> sparql examples -- rdf structure --

Semantic types:
<https://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/new_users/online_learning/SEM_003.html>

Supplementary Records, also called Supplementary Chemical Records(SCRs),
are used to index chemicals, drugs, and other concepts such as rare
diseases for MEDLINE and are searchable by Substance Name [NM] in
PubMed. Unlike Descriptors, SCRs are not organised in a tree hierarchy.

In addition to the descriptors, MeSH also contains some 139,000
Supplementary Concept Records. These do not belong to the controlled
vocabulary as such and are not used for indexing MEDLINE articles;
instead they enlarge the thesaurus and contain links to the closest
fitting descriptor to be used in a MEDLINE search. Many of these records
describe chemical substances.

Supplementary Concept Records (SCR)

SCR records are created for some chemicals, drugs, and other concepts
such as rare diseases. They are labeled as "MeSH Supplementary Concept
Data" and the unique ID begins with the letter "C." Generally, these
terms are lower-cased. *They have two tabs: Details and Concepts.*

Catalogers are not permitted to use these terms and instead should use
the descriptor(s) listed under Heading Mapped to

Supplementary Concept Records (SCOs) - these are not full MeSH Headings
and do not fall under the MeSH tree hierarchy. Many times they are used
to identify substances that are not included in the MeSH terms.

Medical Subject Headings (MeSHÂ®) controlled vocabulary contains
Supplementary Concept Records (SCRs) in addition to Main Headings (also
called Descriptors) and Subheadings (also called Qualifiers). MEDLINE
indexers regularly come across substances in the literature that are not
currently MeSH headings. When this happens, NLM staff adds these
substances to the MeSH vocabulary as Supplementary Concept Records
(SCRs). While MeSH headings are updated annually, new SCRs are added
weekly...

Note: Not all Supplementary Concepts are substances. There are also
terms for diseases and protocols included in MeSH as SCRs."

The NLM does not supply the SCRs to Dialog as part of the Medline MeSH
Thesaurus, so there is no option available to present those terms within
the Dialog Medline Thesaurus. But the SCRs are supplied to Dialog
separately and so the work-around here is to search the SCR term(s)
directly in the Dialog Medline subject field SUBT to retrieve adequate
results in reference to a same search of selected SCRs in PubMed.

<https://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/xml_data_elements.html>

<CASN1Name> Description: Chemical Abstracts Type N1 Name. A free-text
element containing the systematic name used in the Chemical Abstracts
Chemical Substance and Formula Indexes. The systematic name is a unique
name assigned to a chemical substance to represent its structure. First
available for Descriptors in 1995. Example:

SupplementalRecordUI SupplementalRecordName SCRClass C114158 quantum dye
macrocyclic europium-chelate 1 C008718 osteoclast activating factor 1
C008720 otoline 1 C002540 miracil A 1 C060863 conduritol aziridine 1
C008725 1-oxacephalothin 1 C008726 15-oxaestrone 1 C008727 oxaluric acid
1 C414549 MB21 peptide 1